but how much democracy and let's say
elitist oligarchy or government do you
like to see in a specific government
because you said that democracy is
fundamentally unequal you shouldn't
videos you want to see a democracy
that's or democracy is a representative
government of the poor because they are
the majority but at the same time that's
actually not well but at the same time
as we mentioned earlier like we said
that like more positive more change like
at the end there has to be somewhat
enforced government yeah bleep from
above
right the county looking salvos this is
where I use okay it's kind of hard to
see okay good so the good question but I
for me it is an easy question answer
this doesn't you know this isn't to me a
kind of unexpected audience question all
I want government to be for the poor not
because the poor of the majority in
Canada I don't think the poor are the
merchants of people again or maybe it's
thirty percent it's how we define it but
it's way less than fifty nine so been
Canada depending maybe maybe ten percent
not that Canada is a very rich country
but you you just came from Luxembourg me
oh you came through election you know
sir you wouldn't let some but for a few
hours but uh as you know but some people
if there are almost nobody in Luxembourg
is poor like that they have a very tiny
number of people who are poor it's one
of the it's one of the wealthiest
countries were but also one of the least
four so they have a very very small
number for the poor a small minority
there um so it's not now of course I
mean it's a question what percentage of
people are poor in China but Laos or
Cambodia
I've lived in countries were definitely
the majority or four so sometimes the
poor or a majority and sometimes they're
a minority I do not it's not it is not
because the poor are the majority that I
want government by the poor and for the
poor it's because the poor are the
people who need government help who need
government infrastructure so I mean even
in the example of socio of a train
system the train system
doesn't really matter if it works well
for the rich now if it does that's nice
like it's nice if there's a first-class
carriage where rich people can drink
champagne
it means you could have a swimming pool
on the train so rich people can pay
extra man pay a hundred dollars to go
swimming you have a son I don't care
that doesn't really matter for society
but it's tremendously important that you
have seats on the train that are so
cheap or subsidized that an unemployed
poor person looking for a job can take
the train from city to city and go and
do job applications or go and get
government benefits or go to the
hospital right now again like hospitals
sorry I could go on with the many
examples if hospitals don't work for the
rich they have alternatives they have
options they have ways to cope because
they have money yeah the poor need those
government services now I can say this
to some extent about education etc so
there it is a little bit different it's
not really the same for education as it
is for a train service but broadly
speaking you know you you get my point
now um I have never known in the history
of the world a society where the rich
were so marginalised and voiceless that
we really had to worry about them not
not being that the government ignored
them you know the government just
doesn't care about the millionaire's who
own factories you know there's nothing
in government but I mean it's
theoretically possible it's pretty close
to theoretically impossible so you know
that this is the issue of the government
emphasis of the poor but as I've already
said the poor may be a minority they may
be a small minority in a very successful
democracy now the other type of minority
you're talking about ultimately are the
people who care so you know if you have
an open public consultation if you have
an open democratic process with a series
of meetings to discuss sewage treatment
how is the government going to build a
new sewage treatment we just had this in
Victoria the city I live in Canada and
way back in the year 2000 I was involved
those that democratic process in Toronto
when the City of Toronto was planning a
new it was called the the wastewater
management plan wastewater sounds nicer
than poo poo management plan right um
who comes to the meeting I do I I'm the
kind of person to come back here about
ecology I care about politics I care
about the snakes but if you don't force
people to go against their will you know
that is gonna be a minority of people no
I think actually there are questions of
maybe not forcing people but
incentivizing people creating a culture
and even an economy where there are
enough positive incentives that I mean
you know maybe you have to have a
minimum we say look if we don't have ten
percent of people participating in this
we're not gonna make the decision at all
look we have to have a certain
percentage of the public really involved
in this process otherwise we're not
going to commit ten billion dollars to
this because the costs of these
decisions can be huge you know maybe
there is in ancient Athens they would
pay a salary to people they would pay
three Oh balls a day for you to come to
an important public meeting and one
Obama day if it was a less important
minute so you would get paid a little
bit of money to come and spend all day
now there are other things involved
there is a role of intelligence and
education involved but these people are
going to choose themselves i sat down
and gone through technical documents
about air pollution water pollution and
stuff and when I was in Cambodia and
Laos they were different in Laos I got
deeply involved in government policy on
rubber farming on the different types of
Agriculture and farming the governor's
meeting I'm not an expert in in
agricultural engineering and you're not
either trust me you're smart enough to
sit down and read that stuff even part
of it is when you see something you
don't understand going and finding a
book going and looking it up figuring
out what's going on here being able to
scrutinize the statistics so you don't
you don't need to be an expert in
agriculture or sewage treatment or
anything but you need to be someone with
a kind of public spirit and sense of
responsibility and curiosity and Verve
and tenacity and not everybody can care
about
every issue right so in saying a
minority of people are gonna care that
ultimately I know minority people are
going to be involved in the decision I
don't mean the rich or the poor I mean
that when you have real democracy not
everyone is good is going to be
committed on every issue now is that a
problem yes
gay rights as an example two types of
people in Canada were highly motivated
about gay rights people who were gay
themselves and the Catholic Church and
they were on opposite ends so at that
time I mean I don't remember his long
being a major player in Canada we have a
lot of Catholics in Canada we didn't at
that time of very many Muslims but I'm
sure also you know conservative Muslims
had a position on it and so on so you
know one of the problems is when you
when you when you involve too small a
percentage of the public you're gonna
get the polarization of special
interests and not a representation of
the broader society so yeah there are
factors to be managed there get a design
answer question is easy for me you ask a
good question
but I don't feel it's contradictory or
difficult yeah yeah I just wanted to
know like the underlying unifying
philosophy some time right right right
right resin pieces right and just want
to connect them yeah so it's kind of a
cynical view of human nature and impose
yeah but the best thing in life is when
those minorities can choose themselves
when people can slip so so you know um
even something like museums and art you
cannot leave questions about art in the
hands of people who happen to be born
rich which it most societies what it is
someone is born rich their
great-grandfather bought many paintings
maybe they have paintings like here in
Europe there are people their
great-grandfather bought paintings and
put them in a castle and now here they
are today and they don't care about art
whenever in they're on this this
powerful position in the art world they
have money they have an old collection
of paintings and they're going to
be influential that way how how do
people how does the public how does a
democracy need questions about art the
answer questions about art that that
really affects the public and that
involve millions and millions of dollars
of taxpayers money you know tremendous
costs with tremendous long-term
consequences you know that's a situation
where it's so fundamentally elitist in
its bias even aristocratic in its bias
that it's very hard to create a
meaningful Democratic you know process
that I'll build on both people and where
I mean definitely the vast majority of
the poor they don't care they don't
think it's their issue you know they're
not going to be motivated even in the
same way they may be motivated on gay
rights or something yeah so these are
challenges yeah these are so you say
it's always funny you saying it's a it's
a cynical view of human nature you know
again all the ancient Greeks they they
start from this assumption that when
people get involved in in politics they
are they are pursuing their
self-interest you know their interest as
a person or as a class but I mean young
you're an example of this so you know
you you you used to think about veganism
in terms of your health which is one
kind of self-interest and then it
broadened you started thinking about it
in terms of ecology and in terms of
politics it's all self-interest but you
you become more and more enlightened in
your self-interest yeah and your
self-interest is in a grand icing and
involves other people in the whole world
your whole country you know takes on
these takes on these other dimensions
yeah so means self-interest is not
necessarily narrow and is not
necessarily destructive or or focused on
your own entertainment or something John
John Adams behind Wow